ls -a 
for showing hidden files


vm filnename.txt
for writing to file


cat filename.txt
for printing the file into cmd


rm -rf filename.txt
deletes the file



1.
git init
in the project folder


once you make some change, like creating a file


2.
git status
says which files are:
untracked(not put to history)
modified etc



3.
git add .                   for all files

git add name.txt            for a specific file

This command will sort of put the files in stage(that means now the files can be put to the memory)


If u put a file to stage by mistake and want remove it from stage then,
git restore --staged names.txt



4.
git commit -m "some meassage you want"
Before committing it must be staged(step 3)




5.
git log
to see history





6.Restore
if u wanna undo the operation, that is noting but going back to previous state in history.
just copy the hash id of the commit to which state wanna go(using git log, u can see the hash id's of commit)
then
git restore copied_hash_id
now other commits which were done after will be un-commited ans they will be in un-staged area






7.
If u r working on something and it's not complete, so don't wanna commit it,but u wanna store it somewhere
It's like saying, don't want u in history, just stay in backstage, and I'll call u when need

git add .
git stash

then if u wanna bring it back, bring them from backstage area to un-stage
git stash pop

if u don't want the things in stash, deleting people from backstage
git stash clear













GitHub:

1.
git remote add origin url
for connecting the repository to the remote project in your system

url -> your new repository url

origin -> can be any name given to the url
	    by default it will origin so




git remote -v
will show all the links connected to the project


 
2.
git push origin master

origin -> name given to the url
master -> branch name

pushing the changes to GitHub repository

create a branch for each feature, because each branch can have only one pull request



If u have pushed something, but u wanna go back to some other version of code and then push,
first go back to the prev version by git restore command then,
git push origin branch_name - f


 
3.
For creating a new branch

git branch feature             => will create new branch called feature
git checkout feature           => for making the pointer point to feature

now any new commit will be saved/added in new branch(i.e, in this case "feature")

main branch will have the code which will used stable and active
we create new branches, while working on new features or while fixing a bug
 




4.
git merge feature

If u are done with your feature or bug fixing, u can add your branch to main







If you fork a project to your github account,

git clone url
url -> url of cloned project

rhis will bring that perticular project to your system





5.
git remote add upstream url_from_where_u_forked_the_project

upstream => to denote it's the url of the project you cloned



6.
If the upstream(the repo from which u forked) has changes and if u wanna have that changes in your repo

git fetch --all --prune
gets all the changes

git reset --hard upstream/main
reset the main branch of my origin to the main branch of the upstream

git push origin main





7. step 6 can be done in one line
git pull upstream main    =>changes only in remote
git push origin to main   =>changing in github  repo also


Other way to do step 6 or step 7 is by just clicking "fetch upsteam" option in our github repo






8.
u can commit multiple things together
git rebase -i hash_id_of_commit_once_you_press_git_log
it will show an option of pickor squash(s)
first pick an next s's will be merged into a single commit

now
escape + :x
this will allow to add a new message now
again :x











git reset --hard
